When an internationally recognized technology company surveyed its 30,000 employees, they found that only 54% of time spent in meetings was beneficial. This wasted time is a time-killer, an engagement-killer, and a profitability-killer.

Meetings cost money, and I’m not referring to a cover charge. According to the Wharton Center for Applied Research, the average CEO spends 17 hours per week in meetings, senior executives spend 23 hours, and middle managers 11 hours.

Wages for those who prepared the meeting (One study from Bain found that people spent 300,000 hours a year just supporting the weekly executive committee meeting.
Coverage by those overseeing the attendees’ duties
Materials – handouts, presentations, videos, guides
Travel – lodging, meals, airfare, mileage
Costs associated with facilities, speaker, equipment, IT

If you want a quick gauge to price your meetings: take the average hourly wage of attendees (= annual salary/2080) x the number of attendees x the duration of the meeting. Then added 10-20% to account for the supplemental expenses. With this price tag, how much value must the meeting generate to make it financially sensible?

Meetings tend to be bloated. We don’t want to hurt people’s feelings so a one-time invitation becomes a weekly obligation. As described in the Rule of 7, every attendee over a total of seven reduces the likelihood of making a quality, executable decision by 10%. This means a group of 17 or more has the potential of close to 0% decision effectiveness.

Ban multitasking. Over 70% of people bring other work to meetings. This is a sure sign that either he/she is not needed in the meeting or the meeting is not needed. At the outset of every meeting ask for everyone’s full attention. Have them set their phones on a separate table, close laptops, and focus.

The same research found that if managers use meetings appropriately they can reduce the time spent in meetings by 25%. Effective management of remaining meetings can reduce the time spent in meetings by another 20%. This translates into huge savings.

73% consider having a prepared agenda as “very important.”
92% of meeting attendees value meetings as an opportunity to contribute to the organization


Atlassian via 1998 verizon study:::
62 meetings attended monthly by most employees
50% time wasted

meeting-goers:
91% daydreamed
96% skipped it
39% slept
45% felt overwhelmed by how many they had to attend
73% did other work
47% complained that meetings were the #1 time waster

80% of work interruptions are considered trivial
:::

